An effective short game is based on the ability to improvise. The wide variety of situations that players face, both on and around the greens, require that a person adapt to what each situation calls for. From a basic chip shot to a flop shot to a buried lie in a bunker, the successful player must be able to play the many types of shots that today’s courses demand. This sort of shot variety is what makes teaching the short game important and fun. Even though there are numerous ways to putt and play short shots, I suggest that teachers divide this part of the game into four basic categories: putting, chipping, pitching and sand play. In this way, the number of shots to be learned is not overwhelming to new players and, therefore, learning these basic shots can be fairly simple. In addition, I like to present each of these shots as a variation of the basic swing, with the primary deviation for each shot being the address position. Once a person has a sense of how to swing the club and can do so with some skill, setting up differently at address is what will produce the various shots of the short game. In my view, this notion facilitates player development, because the player isn’t required to learn a new swing in order to hit different shots. Having one swing that can be varied with a setup change is far simpler than the idea that we should have a different swing for each type of shot. For example, with a chip shot, the player will position the ball back of center to facilitate solid contact and low flight. In addition, his weight will be primarily on the lead foot to encourage a descending sort of contact with the ball.
Jim Empey on the business impact of making short game instruction simple: Students want to feel that they’re making progress and learning the game in a fun and intriguing way. Teaching the short game as an extension of the basic swing enables players to feel a common thread connecting all shots. This feeling produces confidence and helps students feel that they’re competent to play the game. If we, as instructors, teach sound technical skills while making the game fun and accessible, our students are going to want to make golf an important part of their lives and sign up for more lessons.
