It is my first order of business with all new students to find out what he or she really wants or desires from taking lessons.  In almost every response, the term consistency or the desire to become more consistent is expressed. An evaluation of the golf swing will follow our discussion, and ultimately we find ourselves discussing the bottom of the golf swing and impact. A sure sign of inconsistent golf games is when the club head usually outraces the hands and arms to the ball. The result is loss of clubface control and uncertainty for where the “bottom” of the swing occurs. I make it a goal for every student I teach to understand an impact position followed by the bottom of the golf swing with small chip shots. A common shot I favor my students to begin practicing is when the ball is placed on an upslope around the green. The student must learn to compress the ball with the clubface into the hill thus making a divot after the ball. This teaches the student to lead with the forward wrist, have a square face at impact, and to contact the ball prior to the ground. Lastly, their finish on a chip shot must require the leading arm and shaft to be “in line” with one another. The movement of the club into impact and the sustaining of impact into the follow through will greatly improve consistency of ball striking.
Connie DeMattia on the business impact of teaching consistency through sustaining impact: I personally believe the first discussion with all new students should include what are the goals and desires that they have for improvement. Inevitably the terms “more consistent” or “consistency” will be a part of the conversation, and my business is predicated upon them making progress. Since we’re able to establish goals and map out a strategy from the first lesson, I’m able to convert these new students to lesson packages. Through the end of September, first-time students signed up for 48 total lesson packages (32 were four-hour packages and 16 were seven-hour packages.) Make the bottom of the golf swing top priority. In order to truly help golfers of all skill levels, understanding impact with the golf ball is imperative. Consistency begins with an improved bottom of the golf swing and can build into bigger and faster golf swings.
