We are a small club with just more than 200 very active golfing members. Our professional staff consists of two PGA Professionals and one apprentice. My wife, Brenda, is our other Class A PGA member; she handles the majority of the teaching, is extremely popular and in great demand both within our membership and local area. Our apprentice assistant professional did a great job in our junior camps last year, but has struggled to gain any exposure as a teacher of adults. This spring we launched a new lesson promotion that took advantage of the popularity of the television program “The Hank Haney Project.” We developed “The Indian Creek Project.” We raffled two chances to win a unique one-on-one lesson series, one with Brenda and one with our apprentice professional. Each winner would receive three hours of instruction a week for eight weeks, a $1,440 value. Members could purchase as many chances as they wanted. With each ticket purchased, the member automatically received a 20-minute lesson. We held the drawing in the clubhouse lounge at the conclusion of a mixed scramble tournament. Unlike the typical lesson where the student tells the professional what they would like to work on, our contest rules specified that the professional would determine the course for improvement, which obviously focused much more on the scoring areas. Plenty of time was spent on the course and learning the players thoughts and tendencies. It was very rewarding to the professionals and the players to see their improvement.
Michael Mayer on the business impact of selling raffle tickets for VIP lesson packages: We sold 100 tickets for $25 each. About half of the 20-minute lessons upgraded to 40-minute lessons. Our overall private lessons increased for all professionals, especially our eager apprentice. We highly recommend trying a “project” at other courses, and we are anticipating an even bigger sign-up next year now that our members see the improvement in the winners. Not only did this add a nice monetary sum to each of our active teachers, it was also a great opportunity to have the time to truly advance players in every area of their games.
